For this assignment, I coded four pages of Charlotte Perkins Stetson’s “The Yellow Wall-paper” using Text Encoding Initiative (TEI). 
This short story is fictional but has some non-fiction autobiographical elements such as her psychosis due to postpartum depression. 
Using Json Formatter online, an XML (eXtensive Markup Language) editing alternative to Oxygen, I analyzed and annotated the text.

First, I used the Google Docs comments feature to annotate where I would code. 
In my excerpt of the story, Stetson frequently used awkward spacing at the beginning of sentences. 
It’s difficult to know her original intentions about whether these indicate paragraph breaks or it’s just a product of her handwriting. 
There are also a few places I made note of regarding Stetson’s use of hyphens. 
In the title, Stetson uses a hyphen in the word “wallpaper;” it appears as “wall-paper.” 
Due to this discrepancy, I noted the spelling change in my code. 
The other hyphen issue was the lack of punctuation or spacing between “oldfashioned.”

Since my Chromebook computer wasn’t compatible with Oxygen, I had to seek an alternate XML code examiner. 
With Dr. Stover’s help, I navigated Json Formatter and made the necessary changes to my code to ensure its validity. 
I was initially confused by the invalid markers the program gave me, I went to Dr. Stover’s office hours and learned that most of 
my mistakes were because I copy/pasted the text from the Google Doc into the program. 
Retyping small sections of my text fixed the errors.

Never having coded before this class, I had assumed it would be more difficult because computer language always looked so foreign to my untrained eyes. 
Learning how methodical and logical this computer coding language (at least in my limited experience) appears to be, 
Annette Vee’s insistence that programming literacy should be widely accessible and required in school curriculums makes more sense. 
It isn’t impossible to learn, nor does it require extensive efforts to understand the basics.

I struggled with accidentally adding too many spaces in between the original text and the code because for me, 
it is easier for me to visually separate the two when I’m still annotating. 
Another factor influencing my spatial difficulties was that since we began in Google Docs and the spell checker does not 
recognize the coding language so it marks the lack of space between the text and the code as a spelling error.

Overall this project was informative. 
I feel like I learned a lot about TEI and annotating based on the formatting and style of the original text. 
After a brief learning curve, I think I understood why my code was initially invalid and how to fix it. 
I’m glad I now understand some of the most common and basic TEI code tags.
